W-21066693-injection-policy-LDS (#991)
mulesoft/docs-gateway: gateway/1.12/modules/ROOT/pages/policies-included-injection-protection.adoc

= Injection Protection Policy
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]
:imagesdir: ../assets/images
:keywords: sql injection, xss, injection protection, api gateway, flex gateway, gateway, policy

[width="100%", cols="1,3"]
|===
>s|Policy Name| Injection Protection

> >s|Summary| Scans request headers, path, query, and body to protect against SQL, XSS, and custom injection attacks in incoming requests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
>s|Summary| Scans incoming requests to protect against SQL, XSS, and custom injection attacks
```

Reviewer: Make this change universal.

>s|Category| Security
>s|First Flex Gateway version available |v1.12.0
>s|Returned Status Codes|`400` - Bad Request
|===

== Summary

> The Injection Protection policy scans incoming request headers, path, query string, and body for SQL injection, XSS (Cross-Site Scripting), and custom injection attacks. Enable built-in SQL and XSS protection by adding `"sql"`, `"xss"`, or both to `builtInProtections`. Add custom protections by defining rules in `customProtections`. Each rule requires a name and a regex pattern. Choose which parts of the request to scan, such as the path, query, headers, or body. You can reject matching requests or allow them and log a warning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Injection Protection policy scans incoming request headers, path, query string, and body for SQL injection, XSS (Cross-Site Scripting), and custom injection attacks. The policy provides built-in protections againt SQL and XSS attacks. Configure custom protections by defining regex patterns that the policy should scan for.
```

> The policy checks the chosen parts against the enabled built-in and custom rules. If a rule matches and `rejectRequests` is `true`, the gateway returns `400` (Bad Request) and adds the response header `x-injection-protection: blocked`. If `rejectRequests` is `false`, the gateway allows the request and logs a warning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The policy checks the request against the enabled built-in and custom rules. Depending on wether *Reject Requests* is enabled, the policy either:

* Rejects the request and returns `400` (Bad Request) with the added response header `x-injection-protection: blocked`.
* Allows the request to reach the backend service and logs a policy violation.
```

== Configuring Policy Parameters

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=configFile]

----
- policyRef:
    name: injection-protection-flex
  config:
    builtInProtections: ["sql", "xss"]  // REQUIRED: include "sql", "xss", or both
    customProtections: []               // OPTIONAL: list of { name: <string>, regex: <string> }
    protectPathAndQuery: <bool>         // REQUIRED
    protectHeaders: <bool>              // REQUIRED
    protectBody: <bool>                 // REQUIRED
    headersToProtect: <string>          // OPTIONAL, default: "" (empty = all headers)
    rejectRequests: <bool>              // REQUIRED: true = reject with 400, false = allow and log
----

> Set `protectPathAndQuery`, `protectHeaders`, or `protectBody` to `true`. Enable at least one option. To configure protection, add `"sql"`, `"xss"`, or both to `builtInProtections`, or add one or more entries to `customProtections`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Remove as it just summarizes the table.

| `protectHeaders`
| Yes
| —
| If `true`, the policy checks request headers. `headersToProtect` specifies which headers the policy checks.

| `headersToProtect`
| No
| "" (empty)
| A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of header names to check. If the value is empty, the policy checks all headers. This parameter is ignored if `protectHeaders` is `false`.

| `protectBody`
| Yes
| —
| If `true`, the policy checks the request body for injection patterns.

| `rejectRequests`
| Yes
| —
| If `true`, the gateway rejects matching requests with `400` and a JSON error message. If `false`, the gateway allows matching requests and logs a warning.

|===

==== Resource Configuration Example

----
- policyRef:
    name: injection-protection-flex
  config:
    builtInProtections: ["sql", "xss"]
    customProtections: []
    protectPathAndQuery: true
    protectHeaders: true
    headersToProtect: "referer,user-agent"
    protectBody: true
    rejectRequests: true
----

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=ui]

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
|Field |Description

> |Built-in Protections | Enable built-in SQL and XSS by including `sql`, `xss`, or both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Built-in Protections | Enable the built-in SQL and XSS injection protection.
```

|Custom Protections | Add rules with a name and regex pattern for other injection types.
|Protect Path and Query | Enable to check the request path and query string.
|Protect Headers | Enable to check request headers.

> |Headers to Protect | Enter a comma-separated list of header names to check, or leave empty to check all headers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Headers to Protect | List of header names to check. Leave empty to check all headers.
```

|Protect Body | Enable to check the request body.

> |Reject Requests | Enable to reject matching requests with `400`. Otherwise, the gateway allows them and logs a warning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|Reject Requests | Enable to reject matching requests with `400` response code. Otherwise, the gateway allows them to reach the upstream service and logs a policy violation.
```

Confirm about the policy violation.

    protectPathAndQuery: <bool>         // REQUIRED
    protectHeaders: <bool>              // REQUIRED
    protectBody: <bool>                 // REQUIRED
    headersToProtect: <string>          // OPTIONAL, default: "" (empty = all headers)
    rejectRequests: <bool>              // REQUIRED: true = reject with 400, false = allow and log
----

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a,a,a"]
|===
|Parameter | Required | Default Value | Description

| `builtInProtections`
| Yes (at least one protection required)
| —
| The built-in protection types to enable. Valid values are `"sql"`, `"xss"`, or both. SQL protection detects patterns such as tautologies (for example, `OR 1=1`), comment-based injection (`--`, `#`), union/select statements, and keywords such as `DROP` and `DELETE`. XSS protection detects patterns such as script and iframe tags, event handlers, and common script schemes.

| `customProtections`
| No
| []
| Custom protection rules for application-specific injection types. Each rule requires a `name` and a `regex` pattern. Values must be valid and not empty.

| `protectPathAndQuery`
| Yes
| —

> | If `true`, the policy checks the request path and query string. The policy URL-decodes the path and query before matching.

Reviewer 2: Should "URL-decodes" be "URL decodes"?

| `protectHeaders`
| Yes
| —
| If `true`, the policy checks request headers. `headersToProtect` specifies which headers the policy checks.

| `headersToProtect`
| No
| "" (empty)
| A case-insensitive, comma-separated list of header names to check. If the value is empty, the policy checks all headers. This parameter is ignored if `protectHeaders` is `false`.

| `protectBody`
| Yes
| —
| If `true`, the policy checks the request body for injection patterns.

| `rejectRequests`
| Yes
| —

> | If `true`, the gateway rejects matching requests with `400` and a JSON error message. If `false`, the gateway allows matching requests and logs a warning.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
| If `true`, the gateway rejects matching requests with a `400` response code and a JSON error message. If `false`, the gateway allows matching requests and logs a warning.
```

|===

==== Resource Configuration Example

----
- policyRef:
    name: injection-protection-flex
  config:
    builtInProtections: ["sql", "xss"]
    customProtections: []
    protectPathAndQuery: true
    protectHeaders: true
    headersToProtect: "referer,user-agent"
    protectBody: true
    rejectRequests: true
----

include::partial$policy-title-headers.adoc[tag=ui]

[%header%autowidth.spread,cols="a,a"]
|===
|Field |Description
|Built-in Protections | The built-in SQL and XSS injection protection settings.
|Custom Protections | The rules defined with a name and regex pattern for custom injection types.
|Protect Path and Query | If enabled, the gateway checks the request path and query string.
|Protect Headers | If enadbled, the gateway checks the request headers.
|Headers to Protect | List of header names to check. Leave empty to check all headers.
|Protect Body | If enabled, the gateway checks the request body.

> |Reject Requests | If enabled, the gateway rejects matching requests with `400` response code. Otherwise, the gateway allows them to reach the upstream service and logs a policy violation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|Reject Requests | If enabled, the gateway rejects matching requests with a `400` response code. Otherwise, the gateway allows them to reach the upstream service and logs a policy violation.
```
